[Anuradha] - Hey everyone.
My name is Anuradha Kumari and welcome to my YouTube channel.
So today we have our second guest for 'Talking With' Series
and we have with us Preeti Pragya. Welcome, Preeti, to the show.
[Preeti] - Thank you, Anu.
Thank you so much for having me here.
[Anuradha] - Thank you.
Thank you for being here.
I'm so excited to learn cloud from you.
And so for the viewers, she's going to take us into the journey of cloud.
So, I'm so excited to learn from her.
[Anuradha] - Before starting, would you like to give a
quick introduction to the audience about yourself?
[Preeti] - Hi everyone, I am Preeti Pragya Jha.
I am basically into
backend development.
And, apart from the backend development, I do architecture as well, in cloud.
I am an AWS certified solutions architect, and I have been working
as an architect as well since last two and a half years.
So I really like architecting and the cloud. So overall I'm like, you know,
developer, and cloud architect. So, that's all about me.
[Anuradha] - So, that is actually a humble way of introducing yourself because,
she also runs a blog called cloudkatha and, it is an amazing blog.
So whatever we talk today, I will be dropping all the links in the description.
So you will have access to everything. But,
CloudKatha is a blog where she talks extensively
about cloud and different problems with AWS and their solution.
So Preeti, I would really like you to like, tell me,
what was your motivation behind this blog?
Because this blog is wonderful and I'm sure it's helping a lots of people.
[Preeti] - Well, that's true. Actually, the motivation is obviously,
as we always say, when there is a problem, then only we go to find a solution,
right?
So, in my initial days of cloud computing, when I started for one of my clients and I
was a complete beginner.
Usually people start with the storage service or doing simple things.
But when I started, I simply jumped into serverless cloud computing and then
doing the cloud native development and deployment using serverless technology
For example, Lambda, API gateway.
And I had zero knowledge about them back then.
So usually while doing the development, I would face a problem.
And then I would go into Google and search for that problem and the solution
for hours, only to be sometimes disappointed, not to find any solution.
And that's when I decided that if I am facing this problem, there might be
many people out there who might be facing the same problem.
But same as me, they
also were not getting the solution anywhere.
That's when I decided to document that each time I face a
peculiar type of problem, I'm gonna solve it.
And then I'm going to document it so that
nobody else has to spend so much time in
figuring out the problem.
And, that's how it started.
Thankfully, once it started,
it's going really strong
and people are getting help from it.
They are finding their solution,
what they are looking for here.
So I hope it goes good.
And I'm able to help someone in need,
you know.
[Anuradha] - Yes, of course,
you're helping a lots of people
because I have seen some of your results in top Google searches.
So definitely.
And there is so much of quality content.
I'm really proud of you, like how you are putting out content there.
And it's definitely helping a lots of people.
So yeah.
Thank you from the whole community
to you for creating such a nice blog.
And also you gave a very
nice overview of how you
jump into this cloud world and
yeah, that, that's a nice one.
Like, you head dived into it.
[Preeti] - Yeah, it's like hopping into the middle of the sea, out of blue (nowhere).
That's what I would like to highlight one point here.
Usually what happens whenever we start something?
We need the confidence
to be able to finish the thing.
And at that time, I'm really proud to have a client like
my client, who had immense
faith it in me.
I directly told the client that
Boss, please know
that I have never, ever worked in AWS.
And this is the
this is the development from scratch.
And I can tell you that I can
learn and do things.
However, please be noted that
I don't know AWS at all.
All I know is AWS is a cloud and
it's Amazon Web Services.
That's all I knew.
And my client had a faith that yes, I
can do it based on the way
he interviewed me and, each and every day
into my journey when I used to,
know things, because obviously when I started out of the blue, suddenly in the
middle of the sea, I was into complex scenario and then going from
complex scenario into finding the
fundamental of the thing that, how things
work.
And then again, coming back and
putting things together.
So.
I would like to say that whenever someone is there, trusting you fully, that's a big,
big motivation.
And also for you to prove a point that, yes, I can't disappoint the person who is in front
of me and who is having so much
faith into me.
So that was a great gesture by my client.
[Anuradha] - That is so true, actually, because, sometimes we don't believe in us, but
if someone else believes in us, we feel like we have to live up to that belief and then
we end up pushing ourselves (for better).
So yeah, it's really a blessing to
have a good client. <<laughs>>
So for me, as of today, my knowledge about cloud is the same.
Yeah, there is cloud and AWS means Amazon web services.
So this is my understanding,
and it ends here.
So I'm really excited to
learn from you and,
at least to be able to explain a little
more about cloud after you teach us.
So, yeah.
Would you like to start with the session?
[Preeti] - Of course, I would like to give
a little bit of overview into
the cloud.
Cloud, as you know, nowadays is a buzzword everywhere.
You will listen cloud cloud, cloud be it, small or be very big organization.
Everywhere there
is
a cloud.
And
so
that's why I would like to give you.
A little bit of overview into cloud.
What is cloud computing,
why we use it?
What's the benefit,
and which kind of cloud that
I use in my day-to-day work.
And then giving a very simple hands-on demo, for example,
how to deploy a simple website into the AWS cloud.
So that, that would be the journey today.
[Anuradha] - Okay.
That sounds really awesome.
So I have shared your screen,
so yeah, take it away.
[Preeti] - Thank you, Anu.
So I guess by now you already know me a bit and, this is the agenda that
we'll be talking about today.
We'll see what cloud computing is,
why we use it.
What are its types?
and real life cloud computing
examples.
And then since I have been using
AWS, since long time and I feel it's a
really good. I would like to give you
a very simple demo of how to get started with
it because hosting a simple website in S3 is one of the best way to get started
with learning AWS, you know.
Okay.
So let's get started.
What is cloud?
Tell me a thing.
When I heard the cloud for
the very first time, first thing that came
to my mind was the cloud
that we see in the sky.
Was that the case with you as well?
Don't forget to leave a comment to let me
know that I'm not alone in this world who
looks at the sky every single time when I listen to the word cloud.
So if we consider about the cloud,
think what does it do?
It provides a service of rain
to the residents of Earth.
Doesn't it?
We on the Earth are dependent
on the cloud for water.
One of the most important resource and then cloud serves us.
If we compare it with cloud computing, doesn't it do the same kind of thing?
Somewhere up there, not in the sky, but somewhere in the remote place,
There are servers, data centers, and
things where actual servers reside and they give us service.
For example, I need huge storage to store all my photographs because I'm a photographer.
Then cloud can provide me that storage and I can store all my photographs
over the internet, into the cloud.
So basically, if you try to compare, it very well compares with the real cloud that lies
in the sky, somewhere up in the sky.
So in that way only, in cloud computing world as well, the cloud or the data centers or
the servers, they stay somewhere remotely, and we access all those resources using internet.
Well, that was about cloud.
So let's get to the introducing cloud computing formally.
Okay.
So if we try to define cloud computing formally, it's nothing but on demand
availability of computing resources.
For example, if you want to do anything, if
you want to host a website, if you want to
deploy API, if you want to do any kind of machine learning. For anything, you will need
a compute resource.
Be it storage, be it, compute power, be it a CDN, or be it a database, be a SASS platform.
Be it infrastructure - for all kinds of resources you can use cloud because cloud computing
will make all those resources available to you, on demand, when you need it.
Think little bit before what
used to happen.
I still remember, when I started
my career a few years ago, in the beginning,
the very first project that I did - once we used to deploy, once you have developed
application for deploying, in the real machine, we had to deploy that.
Imagine we will just go into that computer or the server, we'll login into that IP and
we'll deploy it in our system.
So, you know, the world had changed
a lot in this time.
So in those time, if you have to deploy a small website, you need to accommodate everything.
You need to take care of all those servers.
You need to have cooling system.
You need to have power sorted.
You need to have people who will be managing those servers,
who will be keeping all those servers up.
and keeping uptime as high
as possible.
Will be taking care of networking and all those things, you know. So basically cloud
computing frees from all those hard to maintain tasks.
And I love it. Simply because I really like if you, on the few clicks, you are able to
deploy a website and you can go live to the global worldwide user in few minutes.
And that's the power of
cloud computing.
For example, if you are a small business, you can start with one server.
And if you are a big business, you can start with thousands of servers.
So you don't have to worry that I have to
build the big empire of infrastructure in
order for my business to succeed.
In fact, you can go go side by side, parallely.
You can grow. Cloud computing actually helps any kind of business who are
just starting.
It's great in that because you can start and
you do not pay in the beginning.
If you are not using the service and as your
user base is growing, your app is actually
becoming successful, then you start paying it.
So it's a win-win situation.
Isn't it?
Talking about
the on demand scaling.
So, if I describe, scaling is nothing
but ability to add capacity and
remove capacity. In terms of cloud computing, we call it scaling up and scaling down.
So, for example, currently, or suddenly,
your website (flipkart for example)
have a big billion day and you
have to sell thousands of products, millions
of customers browsing your website and buying from your company, what
would
you do?
Obviously you need to scale as soon as possible, and that must be done automatically.
For example, as soon as more users are browsing your website, in the backend,
more servers will get added.
And if there are less users on your website, in the backend, server will get removed as
well, so that you don't pay for any idol server, right?
Because that's what helps us, in the cloud, to lower overall operational cost.
And that's why I say it's suitable for
all kinds of, and all sizes of businesses.
We are here to give you a real life example of cloud computing.
Let me tell you one thing that even if you
are hearing the word cloud computing for the
first time, but I guarantee that you must
have used it quite a lot of times in your
day.
And we use it in our day-to-day life as well.
For example, who doesn't love binge
watching a series on Netflix, and I guess
I do. So, as you can see in the screen, there are a lot of well-known applications.
For example, Facebook, Netflix, YouTube, Airbnb, Zoom, and slack, everything.
And they are all hosted in the cloud.
Especially, if I talk about Airbnb and Zoom, they have started from very small and then
they have reached their peak being in the cloud and they were able to that
because they didn't have to build the entire empire of infrastructure.
For example, nowadays Airbnb is such a big thing, but there was a time that it just started.
So imagine if Airbnb will go in buying all
the servers beforehand, before going to that,
business and getting the users,
what would happen?
It wouldn't have been possible to succeed as much as it did.
So cloud computing was a catalyst in the success.
Well, what are types of cloud computing ?
If we talk about the types of cloud
computing, usually we define it,
in the three parts, public cloud, private cloud, and hybrid cloud.
Now you might tell me that nowadays there is a fourth one coming that we call community
cloud and as the word already is saying it's kind of for the
community.
So let's know what are all these different types. I'll get started with private.
Private cloud is nothing but as we say on-premises cloud, for one single organization.
For example, if my organization
is not that much comfortable in putting the
client's data or due to some security reasons or for any other reasons, I don't trust anyone
storing my data.
I don't trust my data going through their
network.
So in that case, I can get my own
cloud in our own infrastructure.
I can buy my own server.
I can employ all those pollings and everything to put the cloud in the.
they are in our own premises and then we can access the cloud for ourselfs only
so that we are more secure.
We know what we are doing.
We are compliant to our needs and all those things. Then comes public cloud.
Public cloud, as we say, it's
for public usage.
And it's used by, as a shared model. To give an example, I would like to say, for
example, if we are using mobile phone - we use SIM card in our mobile for communicating,
right.
Something cards are from Airtel (a network provider).
Some sim cards are from BSNL.
Some are from other company, or you might be using from some other company.
So it's like they are service provider and they provide us a service of
communicating with other people.
We don't know what goes in the background.
What's the system over there, how,
to hops and router communicate with each other,
for example, to make us talk to each other. We don't know, but we are using its service.
All those things are abstracted from us.
And that's how it happens with the public
cloud, as well as. Someone who manages
it, is called cloud provider.
And nowadays there are a lot of cloud providers in the market.
Few of which I'm sure you already have heard of, for example, AWS, Azure, then Google
cloud or Alibaba cloud in China or
digital ocean.
There are quite a few already big, big players in the cloud and they provide us
all the available cloud services and we can use it over the internet.
So today we are going to discuss
mainly about the public cloud provider, AWS.
In the demo that we give on the little bit about how to get started with it.
Why should we use it?
Coming to the third type, hybrid
hybrid, as you must have guessed by now is
the mix of these two - private plus public.
Sometimes, some of our clients prefer that they would like to get started with their
own premises infrastructure.
And, if at all required, for example, if they have huge storage need,
they will get started with on premises.
But as and when needed, they will transfer all those data that are not frequently
accessed into the cloud.
So it's called hybrid.
You store something in your on-premises and something in the cloud.
You access something from the on premises, you access something from the cloud
and together, they are called as Hybrid Cloud.
So I hope these types of cloud is clear to you.
And, apart from three, as I said, community cloud. Community cloud is similar
to public, but it's not sharable for the general public, but it's there for
a special community of people.
If I say, for military people or for some other people, so it's specifically made for
one type of community.
Okay.
So we are here in one of the cloud service provider, AWS (Amazon web services).
You might already be knowing Amazon web services, as for quite a few years,
It has been the leader in cloud computing market.
And why not.
They have vast range of services
and they can vater your all kinds of need.
You can deploy any kind of application into the AWS cloud.
You can do machine learning, artificial intelligence, and they have some satellite related services
as well over there.
So yeah, their range of offering is really, really huge and it can cater all kinds
of demands that you have.
So if we talk about services,
today, I'm talking about application deployment.
If we have a kind of application how we are going to deploy it into the cloud. Here, as
I have divided the application
into two parts - frontend application,
backend application. If I have to deploy a front end application, it's clear cut.
shown,
Like
we
will go to this.
We will be using S3.
if I say in simple words, you can
get started with the website, just using this
service, S3 (Simple Storage Service).
However, if your user base is worldwide, then it makes sense to use a content
delivery network or CDN.
And that's what cloud front is in the AWS.
So if your website is going to be for global users, S3 in combination
with CloudFront is going to be your choice for a front end deployment.
And if you are into backend and you want to deploy a backend solution,
this is the way to go.
I have meant three ways to go here. Nowadays, as people prefer serverless
way mostly, and even I, in my latest
project have been working on serverless only
because serverless frees you up from even the smallest amount of maintenance
tasks is not up to you.
You, as a developer are only responsible for writing code.
And that all. Lambda, as we say, is a service, which helps you write code and run it.
That's it.
And in combination with API gateway,
this provides you
a full backend application
that you want to deploy.
And for database, we have multiple options on AWS, but it really depends on your requirement.
For example, you might have a requirement for structured data,
and you want to go for SQL.
Or if you have some unstructured data and you want to go noSQL way. You have some other
options, for example, dynamoDB, you can use as a noSQL database. you want to use guests,
you can go ahead with elastic case.
So it really depends on your requirement, which kind of need you have.
So what you need is, is something that will be in the front end
and that front end can be API gateway or application load balancer.
It is going to take requests from your user and forward it to your backend for further processing.
So in the front, usually in the AWS, you will
see either API gateway able to accept your
request, or you will be using application load balancer. There are times when people use
network load balancer as well.
For example, if you want to process millions of requests per second,
You might go with the network load balancer as well.
But usually I have seen, in case of application, that people go with either
API gateway or application load balancer. Then we come to compute.
In the compute, we have three options here.
One is Lambda, which as I told, is the serverless option.
Another one is EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud). Who doesn't know EC2 now,
EC2 is the backbone of AWS.
It means virtual server in the cloud.
Elastic compute cloud is the full form
of EC2. As the name says, EC2 means, it provides you compute capacity in the cloud.
Which kind of compute capacity?
- which is elastic.
That means you can get started with one EC2 and if required
You can go to thousands of EC2, and that too, within minutes.
That's the power (of AWS EC2) .
Another kind of backend that we see is ECS.
ECS is Elastic Container Services.
Many applications require
Docker to be deployed on the on-premises or cloud.
So if you have the requirement to
deploy a Docker environment, ECS is
the way to go. You can deploy all your ECS and all these backend together
can use whatever database you have available.
Maybe dynamoDB, maybe RDS.
And RDS is the relational database
services, it mainly focuses on all
of the relational databases.
For example, mySQL, Aurora DB, Oracle, SQL server, etc.
And AWS provides you all the options to create all those databases here and use it.
So take away from this slide is - if you have a front-end application, think
this way. If you have a backend application, think this way.
then you have the option to select here.
Think on the front, what would be
the front which will be taking requests.
What will be your servers and what will be your Database?
And you are all set to go.
Okay.
So today I'll be showing you how to deploy a very, very simple website in AWS.
When it comes to deploying a simple website, AWS S3 (Simple Storage Service)  is the way to go.
As I told in the previous slide.
So these are the steps that you can use to deploy it.
We'll see it, one by one, after we log in into AWS console (step 1) .
Okay.
So
I will give you a bit of overview as well.
For example, first, (step 2) you will create an S3 bucket.
(Step 3) You will create a simple website.
(Step 4) You will upload the content of your website into the S3 bucket.
(Step 5) You will enable the website hosting and then (Step 6) you will provide the permission for everyone
else to be able to access your bucket and ta-da, your website will be live.
[Anuradha] - cool.
So you are going to show us demo, right?
Because I'm excited to see the demo on how it's going to work.
[Preeti] - Yeah.
I'm excited as well.
Hope things go fine.
[Anuradha] - Let's go!!
[Preeti] - Well, I'm already logged in into AWS, but I would like to show you
how you can do that as well.
This is the link,
aws.amazon.com/console
And here you can log in into your AWS console.
In case you don't have a cloud account. AWS account, you can create a new account
as well using the button - create an AWS account.
Please know that AWS provides free tier for twelve months.
So it's the right time for you to enhance your cloud knowledge using these
hands-on, because, as we always say, to learn anything, it's always best to get your
hands dirty.
Isn't it?
So if you want to increase your
knowledge in cloud, the best way to do is create
your own AWS account and get started with it.
Once you already have an account, you can click 'Log back in' button.
And here there are two options to login.
Option 1 - root user
Option 2 - IAM user.
I won't be going into the details of what are those things, but just to give a brief
overview, Root user is nothing but a
account that you create.
For example, you will be creating your account with your email ID and password.
So that email ID user is your root user, but for safety reasons, for security reasons,
it's not recommended to use your root user for your day-to-day activity.
And that's why one of the first things, after creating your account, is to create an IAM user.
So here after you will be using IAM user.
So usually once you have created your account, you will be using this way only to do all
your daily task.
Once you click on IAM user, you are required to put your account ID here.
You can either put account ID or you can put account alias.
Usually account ID are 12 digit number and are hard to remember.
So I prefer using alias, and
You can put any easy name that you can remember.
Well, I'm already logged into AWS here.
So let's see how we can deploy a very simple website. In the search bar,
You can search for any service that you want.
For example, if you need EC2, search for EC2 and you will get the EC2 and you
can create a virtual server in the cloud.
But we are going to deploy in S3.
So we will search S3.
And as soon as we search S3,
it appears here (in serach results).
Just click on (choose) option S3.
Now we are in S3. I would like to tell
you just a bit about it. In S3,
You can store any kind of file that you want.
We call it 'object' in terms of S3. You can store any kind of object
that you want.
It can be video, it can be audio,
it can be PDF.
It can be docs file, or simply binary file. Anything and everything that you can think
of.
It has flat file structure, so whatever the requirement is, you can do it,
but before you can store it, you have to create a container into it.
And that's what we call (S3) 'bucket'.
You create a bucket and then you store everything in your bucket.
Let's try with test as name of bucket here.
You can select which region you want your bucket to stay in.
It's a good idea to choose a region, which
is near to you.
For example, I am staying in India.
So for me, it's good to select Mumbai region, but if you are some where it's always good to choose
a region that's closest to you.
So that performance is good and latency is less, all those reasons.
Okay.
Once we have selected the region, keep all other settings as default because it's not
required as of now.
And then just go on button 'Create bucket'. And what you see here?
Error - bucket with the same name already exist.
You might be asking me reason -  Why?
AWS
is such a big cloud.
Why is simple name is saying it
does not exist.
It might be, there are different
clients.
If other clients are using (bucket named) test, why can't I use it, too?
Everyone has their own bucket. But my friend, let me tell you that S3 bucket is designed
in a way that all the buckets have to be unique and not across only my account,
but across all the AWS accounts in the world.
Okay.
Because they use AWS bucket name as a domain name as well,
if you are using
website hosting or everything.
And for many other reasons that we will not go into details. But it's required that your
bucket name must be unique and a good way to maintain a unique bucket that I have found
is always prefix your business name.
You know, for example, I just prefix CloudKatha to any of my bucket name,
And then chances of getting my bucket collided by any other gets to very, very low.
So let's give a bucket name
that's not matching with anyone: demo-talk-with-anu
I think it should not be already available.
So, let's click create bucket button again.
And, as we were guessing, the bucket has been created.
So we are done with first two steps, right. Now,
What we have to do is create a simple website and upload
it
to S3.
Let's go ahead and do that.
For creating a simple website,
I have a very, very simple HTML that you
can see
here already there, and I'll be using it for today's demo.
As you
can see, it's
that simple, it's
a very simple demo with just
one heading (Learn Cloud with Preeti) and one liner body and a footer (copyright Preeti).
So I'll be going ahead
and uploading the content in AWS. Let's click on 'upload' button - Add Files - seelct the file
Once the file is uploaded, Click on upload
and upload is succeeded.
So now we are two more steps ahead. Now,
step five is enable static website hosting. What is a static website hosting?
In S3, as I already said, you can do a lot of thing. You can just decide to store all your objects
over there, or you can decide to deploy your static websites using S3. And to do that,
it's not by default enabled. You have
to enable it. By default,
It is used as a simple storage container. But if you need to use it as a website hosting,
you need to enable the website hosting. Don't worry.
It's very, very simple. We'll
be seeing that, how we can enable website
hosting. Let's go to the properties tab, here, beside the objects.
we have the properties tab. We will go into the properties tab. Keep scrolling till
you find static website hosting section.
It's at the bottom of the page. As you can notice, current status static website
hosting is disabled. This is the bucket
we have just created. And as I told, by default,
it's always disabled. Let's go ahead and enable it.
Let's click on 'enable'. Hosting type is we want to host a static website
In index document - we have just uploaded our website as you know, index.HTML. As of now,
that's the file that we have. For error document also, I'm using this same index.html only, but it always
makes sense to have your own error.html file. Isn't it? For specific error type, whatever you
have to have your own error html file, but for this demo, I'm just using this index file.
So we have enabled static website hosting. So our
website is already deployed over here. And as you can see, a URL has been generated
http://demo-talk-with-anu.s3-website.  blah, blah, blah. So this is
the website that has already been deployed, but hey, why this 403 error?
In AWS. due to security reasons, any buckets that you create, they are private.
Nobody else can access those objects and with obvious reasons. You don't want your
objects accidentally to be in hand
of someone, right. Just because you did not
configure it to be private, you never want
your objects to go in wrong hands. Isn't it.
So it's a good decision by AWS, I'm sure, to make the buckets private by default.
And if at all you require to make your objects public, you have to do it.
Now, to give permission, there are two steps. One step is
I would just be showing you. You can
also see current access status (in console)
Bucket and objects are not public. Because this is a default
bucket that we have just created
with default setting. If you go to permissions tab, where we are currently, you will see option - 'block
public access' is enabled. This was done by default.
As these words can tell you, that
public access is blocked for the bucket. So
let's go ahead and disable it, because we want
our bucket to be publicly accessible.
the website we have just created should be
publicly accessible to our customers, to
our users, to everyone else
you want to share your portfolio with or anything else.
To just show you a little bit more, as you can
see in 'block all public access' option, there
are four options shown and all those are ticked.
These are the different types of options
that are used to make a bucket public.
So it's like block if any user tried to make
a bucket public by using this, or by using
this, or by using this. Don't let it do. Just
disbale it. But now we, as a user, want to make
our pocket public and this guy will not let
us do that first.
So let's sort this issue. Edit it and disable it.
So now, if we are going to enable public access,
this guy will be happy.
Save changes (write 'confirm' text in the
input box to confirm saving)
Well, one step already done. This guy (Permissions Overview) is happy
and now access the status is - objects can be
public. That means it's not yet public. It
can be public, but it's not yet public. To
make it public, what we need to do? As I already told you that,
to make a bucket public, these
are the four different ways. We'll be using
one of these way to make our pocket public.
So let's go ahead with bucket policies. Because
bucket policies are one of the most frequently
used and convenient way to make a bucket public,
or simply to grant permission to other people
to use your bucket. You might limit your permission
or if required, you can make it completely
public. You might decide to give access to
only one file.
You can do that as well. But for our requirement,
we want our site to be used as website. And
for that, we need to make it public. So let's
go ahead and use a bucket policy.
Here, if you scroll, keep scrolling
down, you will see bucket policy option. Let's click
edit and here you can edit the bucket policy.
If you want, you can simply edit this to give, you know,
access, to public bucket, or I prefer
a website, which is really
good in terms of generating the policy.
Simply go to Google and just aws search policy
generator. It will open this beautiful site.
You have to select policy type. We are creating
an S3 bucket policy. So policy type is going
to be S3 bucket policy. Then we need to add
statement. In 'Effect' option, we have two choices - allow or deny.
Obviously we want to make our buckets public.
That means we want to add 'Allow' permission.
'Principle' means to whom do you want
to give this access? Since this is a website,
this needs to be public and to make it public,
you have to give star (*). Star means all - to
everyone. We want this to give this access
to everyone. Let's go ahead and select Actions.
Action will be 'Get Objects'. I mean, anyone
should be able to get objects.
This is get objects or, if required,
you can select all actions - all actions
means giving all the possible actions that someone
can do in S3. But as we all would say in AWS,
not in AWS only, in everywhere that we should
always follow the principle of least privilege.
Only give permission to a person
as less as required.
If only a person is needed to
use Get Object, you don't need to give Get object ACL
at all. It doesn't make sense.
Then is ARN - Amazon resource Name, and this is here.
We need to provide the ARN of the bucket
let's go ahead and click on this sqaure box
to copy the bucket ARN. Let me remind
you that we are in the same section - in the
bucket policy section, okay, we are editing
the bucket policy. And as soon as you
click to edit the bucket policy, you will
be finding the bucket ARN over there.
So just click on the sqaure box to copy the
bucket ARN. Bucket ARN is copied.
Let's go ahead and put it in policy generator website. Click on 'Add Statement' button. 'Now we have added
the statement. So let's click on 'Generate
policy'. Wow, a beautiful policy has been
generated. So let's copy this. Let's go ahead
here (policy section). Let's remove everything from the bucket
policy, paste the newly created policy and save changes.
And what happened? Error - Action does not apply to
any resources in statement. No, that's sad.
What can we do? Let's try to Google the error.
Stack overflow always comes to the rescue.
Thank you, Stack overflow for being there
for us always.
Well, I know why this happened. Okay.
So in S3, you know, there are two types of
bucket policy. One is object level
policy, and one is bucket level policy. For
example, first there is S3 bucket and inside
the bucket, there are Objects. So, as I said, least
priviledge, you know, AWS always follows it.
So either you have access to bucket or you
have access to object, or do you have access
to fewer or do you have access to few more Objects
like really, really granular access is defined.
So here, as we want to give 'Get object' access,
get object access means we want to give access
to the object. And that means here in (resources of policy), the
ARN hat we have specified is
for bucket level access. If you want to give
object level access, you have to add '/*'
slash star. I hope this should sort out this issue.
Let's do save changes.
And, bucket policy is successfully edited.
Now, as you can see beside your bucket name,
publicly accessible. So that means we have
successfully made our bucket public. Let's
go and try again (to reload the website we deployed).
[Anuradha] - Woooow!!
[Preeti] - Yayy !!
We have done it, can you see it?
[Anuradha] - yes, yes, yes. This is so good. It's nice.
Like it was pretty straightforward. I mean,
it doesn't take much of steps if we know what
to do next that is.
Preeti, I wanted to ask one thing when you edited
the permissions and you added slash object to it,
I guess slash stars, it means that all the
objects in that bucket that we get permission
to all of them.
So. What if like I have to give it to a particular
object, maybe there are multiple objects in
my bucket. So is there a name which I can
pick for specific objects?
[Preeti] - Absolutely. Thank you for the question, Anu. I would go ahead
with that. Usually, you know what happens
whenever we have a bucket, we know that many,
a times it happens that we have groups of
people or groups of users or something.
So we like to group all those things using
prefix. For example, if I want to upload
a bucket. The prefix is nothing but in
the console, you will see it like folders.
In real life, how we store object inside
folder inside that folder, inside that folder.
So we name our things. Uh, as I said in the
demo index HTML, you can name it like,
websites/ index. HTML, and then you can
name it like,  using other prefixes
and based on those prefixes, you can go ahead
and then you can define the permissions as
well.
Apart from that, you can use access control
list as well as this allows you to, ACL, as you.
can see here in the screen, access control
list really helps you out
to
go ahead and get the granular permission based
on each object wise, you can click, let me
just go to the bucket - objects -
click (select) on the object - Action And here in options
you can see that are, you know, this is already
public, but otherwise you will say make public
via ACL. Can you see that here? Like, yeah,
this is
object level. Like each object, for example,
if
you have thousands of objects and you want
to
give access
only
one object, you can
go
ahead
and give it via PCL.
Like only give permission to this. If you
don't want to do only for one, you can group
it using prefixes and then give it. And if
you want to give whole, you can use bucket
policy to give it as a whole.
[Anuradha]: Okay. I'm not sure how big of my question will be, but like, what is the process for ACL? For giving the bucket permission,
We saw how to do that. But with ACL, is
it like just going ahead and selecting, making
it public with ACL, or we also have to create
some permissions for it as well.
[Preeti] - Yeah. So there are different ways to
deal with ACL in AWS. You can, you know,
either you can pass those ACL commands in
as a CLI command, or you can go ahead and
if you want to, do simply make public,
as I can say, you can select the bucket, simply
just click it here and make it to make public
via ACL. Single
click is, you know, more than enough to make
your object public. And other
than that, if you have some explicit requirement, for example, let me just show it in the permission tab.
This was block public access bucket.
Here. As you can see here, there is
a section for ACL as well. Okay. As we have
already enabled the bucket public, but here
based on different things you can give,
you can give that to, you only want the bucket
owner to be able to access all the objects.
You want everyone to be able to access. This
is what we did using bucket policy, right?
We gave access to everyone - public access.
So this is also the ACL. You really, we
could have gone ACL way and just created the
bucket to give everyone access, public access.
So, this was also one of the way, then we
can give authenticated user group.
This is like something - If you want to give
a group of access using AWS, some other ways.
For example, if you have an on premises server
and you have active directory and you have
set of users over there, you want to
authenticate your active directory to
your AWS. And for each of your user, you want
to create a folder so that they can store
their own personal filing cloud.
You can go ahead with authenticated group as well, or here it's the log delivery group.
So you can use all these options in the ACL
to give access. So there are two options,
as I told you, one is in the Permissions tab
ACL. And second is just by clicking on the
object. Just click on the object and
make it public.
If you want to give access about it or to,
you know, somebody.
[Anuradha] - Got it, there are lots of different ways, depending upon the use case. Worth deep diving into, for some later day.
It was really nice understanding how
it works and behind the scenes. And when I
see it happen, it looks like I got the confidence
that I can do it too.
I always thought that I will never be able
to do cloud or something, but this looks nice.
I might play with it for some days and see
that, how I can deploy with it. I wanted
to ask on this, uh, that I have seen a lot
of billing issues. Like I always get to see
on Twitter that people say that they got billed
extra.
And also, I am sure that this also would have
some settings to not get billed if you are
not using something and so on. So are there
some caveat which you like to talk about maybe.
[Preeti] - Um, obviously when you are into the cloud,
cloud, has the power to get
started with one server as well as it has
power to go crazy using millions of Servers,
thousands of servers or whatever is your requirement.
And depending on that, you will be billed,
obviously the huge, hefty amount of sum.
So what I do usually, and I also recommend
all my readers in my blog, I have a, you know,
I created a blog post on this as well, so
that I always recommend my user that as
soon as you create your AWS account, you should
create billing alerts so that even if you
are sleeping and in your account, your budget,
you go beyond the budget,
You get an email as soon as possible. And
as soon as the, you know, that threshold is
breached, you'll get an email, you see it
and you come back to your account and then
you go to billing dashboard
and there in the billing dashboard, you
can see that what you have spent. For example,
you can see my billing dashboard it's dollar 0.
I'm so happy about it. Yeah. So in the
billing dashboard, you can go and if you have
spent something, you will get service wise
that what is something that is charging you.
So you can see that by looking at this, you
will be able to understand what I need to
do next. So you can go ahead and stop that service.
But before going into all that,
you can, in this screen, you can go to budgets
and create a budget. As you can see in my
account here, I have created a monthly budget.
And as you can see, my monthly budget is 10
cent. I want to be alerted as soon as
10 cents are spend in my account. And that's
great. For example, you know, I write
a lot of tutorials on cloudkatha.
And by doing that, there are times that when
I spin up few servers, maybe quite a few,
sometimes five 10, just to give some demo
and I forget it, I just leave it running.
And I go start doing some other work and suddenly
out of the blue,
I get a message that, your free tier
has been already over reached.
And then this amount is money is going to
spend on your account. And then I wake up
and come back to my account. And then I go to my billing dashboard.
I see that where I have spent, I go back and
I stop my server. So, my friend, this is going to
be your savior. Please, please, please. If
you are new to AWS, not new, I guess it's
for everyone, but specially if you are
new to AWS and you have created
a free tier account to make lot
of learnings and to learn new things, always
make sure to create a cost budget and you
can create a monthly budget.
It just has to be more than zero, right?
So select any amount more than zero. That's
why I have selected point ten cents, so
select any amount and then create a budget
and you are set. Now you are not going to
spend millions in this and safely, you can
learn as much as you want this.
[Anuradha] - thank you for this tip because this is going
to be a life savior, money savior but yeah.
[Preeti] - I'm sure. I think this is the first step
we should always follow - that
as soon as we create an AWS account. The first thing to do is to enable MFA because security
is the most important thing to do. And the
second thing to do is to set up the budegt because
money comes second important thing after security. So yeah.
[Anuradha] - definitely. Thank you. This was really
nice. So do you have anything else to share?
[Preeti] - I would like to say, you know, this is just
the beginning and you can, you just got a
taste of AWS that what you can do and what
you cannot do. So, I would just like to
show a bit over the services here, as you can
see here, there are lots of services. At the
time, you know, AWS has more than 200 services
in different differently.
If you see analytics, they have a
lot of services in analytics, athena, cloudSearch, Data Exchange, data pipeline,
and many. There's application integration.
There are many, so you can, you know,
navigate to all this and see all the
available things over here. So go ahead, create
a free tier account, explore it. Get your hands
dirty, deploy your first application.
Get your hands on front end application. If
you are into backend, go ahead, create a backend
application, just get your hands dirty and
you will know it, you know, for sure. As I
told in the beginning, That I dived in the
middle of the sea. Suddenly I came and I
had to, you know, deliver my application within
first sprint.
There were a few user story, and that was
the time that I was suddenly into the console.
I knew I had to play with a few things, but my
friend, that was the best thing that ever
happened to me. I started doing demos before
going to Google and searching what is S3 or
what is Lambda. And you might think that was
difficult.
It was difficult, but it was hell a lot of
learning. Trust me. I learned a lot. So if you
do, you also, I would suggest that don't go
too deep into any topic by learning theory
or by going to, udemy courses
or by going to AWS documentation, anything,
read a bit, know a bit about it and then get
your hands dirty.
That's the best way you can learn it.
[Anuradha] - Thank you, Pretti. Really, it was very nice learning all these overview of cloud and AWS and that hands-on demo. I'm sure that people
who are listening to this, they will also get
a lots of value out of it. And, I will
be posting all the links, which Preeti talked
about in the video description and also her
LinkedIn and Twitter ID.
Go give her a follow because she's doing
really great in Cloud front and, do
check out the cloud Katha blog. That is
really, really amazing. And I'm sure that
once I start learning, I'm going to use your
blog a lot. Thank you so much again for creating
and coming here today to share with us all
your learnings.
[Preeti] - Thank you so much, Anu, thank you so much
for having me here. It was a great pleasure talking
to you and getting something ready for our
readers and you know, for our viewers. So
thank you so much.
[Anuradha] - Thank you. So in this new year, I really hope that you put new learnings and new content into your blog
and more and more people get helped by it and your blog grows a lot.
So these are my wishes. Do you have any plans
for new year? Like any goals for this new tear.
[Preeti] - Um, haven't said about goals, you know,
obviously there are quite a few, however,
One of my biggest goal as of now is to,
you know, in the last year, as we gave a lot
and lot of tutorials in AWS cloud and more
than lakhs of people have benefited from it.
So one of our goals is to come on
our AWS channel, a YouTube channel for our
specific to all the cloud learnings. And
then we'll be giving all those how to videos,
how to set up this, how to set up that or
anything that our viewers would like to understand
or know more about it. So that's one of my goal,
or to be broad if I say cloud Katha's
goal.
So apart from that, obviously we would like
our viewer to get as much help as possible.
And I would like to be as helpful as
I can. So to give back to the community.
Whatever I am it's because of the community. we have
learned from there. And then we go ahead,
we learn a bit, and then we go a step further.
So I would like to do my bit as well by
sharing all the knowledge that I
learned here.
[Anuradha] - That is awesome. Yeah. I mean,
that's the best way of learning, giving back to community
and sharing your knowledge.
And I'm really excited for your channel
do create the channel as soon as possible. And I'm going
to share that link soon in the description once you create it and
all the best for your channel, I'm sure that lots of people will learn more via the channel videos as well. So go do it, I'd say.
[Preeti] - Thank you so much, Anu. In fact, in cloud Katha, many of our readers are sending requests to us for videos that
do you have video content, please? If you
can provide us.
And I'm like, and I have not yet created,
but well, when we have got lot more requests,
then, uh, it, you know, I give it
a thought that everyone is requesting it and
it's the need of the hour, then, Why not?
[Anuradha] - Yes, go ahead. And of course, I mean, that's, that's the best way. Go ahead, create it.
I'm really looking forward to it.
[Preeti] - Thank you so much, for boosting the morale, it is very much required.
[Anuradha] - I'm always, always there for you. Go ahead.
Just rock it. And, thank you.
Thanks once again, for coming, it was really nice
talking to you. Maybe in future also, if we want to deep dive into something,
I would really like to have you someday again on my channel.
[Preeti] - Thank you so much, Anu. With
that I would like to sign off, and I would like to say
a very, very happy new year to all our viewers
Stay happy, stay healthy and stay safe.
[Anuradha] - Thank you so much, Preeti. And, to everyone.
that's all for now. I will see you later in
next video and happy new year. I hope you
are all safe, and healthy. Take care. Bye.